[Music]
well here's something not to hold your
breath over what will happen in the next
five billion years so our universe is
like 14 billion years old yeah not so
young is it although it might seem like
all those stars planets and other
celestial bodies will live on forever
it's really not the case as time goes on
inevitable processes will determine the
fate of our Sun earth neighboring
planets and the whole universe itself
and you know what they say all good
things must come to an end
so let's have a peek at a future so
distant that it's hard to comprehend and
try to answer one particularly alarming
question what will happen to us in the
next five billion years just a warning
an apocalypse will come our Sun today is
a middle-aged star still powerful and
blazing merrily in the sky but moving
towards the end of its life all the same
kind of like us and what exactly does
the future hold in store for our Sun
we'll have to turn to the brightest
minds to answer that question in 2016 an
international group of researchers
published a work outlining the future of
our solar system in the scientific
journal astronomy and astrophysics they
explained that 208 light years away from
us there's a remote star called
l2 papas several billion years ago this
star looked exactly like our Sun does
nowadays with the same mass and similar
characteristics this coincidence gave
the scientists an opportunity to see the
future of our solar system with almost
100 percent accuracy
l2 purpose is pretty old about ten
billion years old to be exact
over its very long lifetime the star
lost 1/3 of its mass and that's the
exact fate awaiting our Sun too but
before that in about five billion years
our Sun will swell into a red giant over
100 times its current size and it'll
keep on growing into the next ARF
an asymptomatic giant branch star this
means that the radius of our star will
be one astronomical unit which is the
distance between the Sun and the earth
to put that in perspective right now the
sun's radius is only one 215th of an
astronomical unit so yeah it'll get way
bigger than it is now
as is typical of all stars of such a
huge size the Sun will start to cool as
it uses up all its energy the heavier
elements like silicates and different
metals will begin to condense into tiny
grain and dust particles after that the
radiation coming from the giant star
will push these particles away and
they'll carry gas off with them so
basically the Sun will literally be
expelling its atmosphere as a dramatic
result our Sun will go from a mass of
giant into a tiny white dwarf although
it'll be about the size of Earth it'll
be a whole lot denser and heavier just
one teaspoon of the material of a white
dwarf star weighs over five tons in the
final stage of our Suns transformation
the core of the star will become exposed
and it will turn into something
completely different but that's another
story itself let's stick to what's on
everybody's mind what will happen to the
earth to answer that question nobody
knows for sure
scientists do know that it won't be good
news for life here on our planet but
it's not a definite fact that the earth
will survive to see the Sun turn into a
red giant let alone a white dwarf
several disastrous scenarios we'll
probably in life on earth much earlier
so make sure your insurance is up to
date huh
[Music]
volcanic apocalypse we're not exactly
sure if or when a volcanic apocalypse
will happen it could be anywhere from
zero to 100 million years from now the
outcome of a mega eruption will depend
on the area it'll try to burst through
the planet's crust
if this happens in a place with vast
salt deposits and there are plenty of
those on earth mass extinction will
follow and that's because when salts are
baked from the heat of volcanic activity
huge quantities of ozone destroying
chemicals are released into the
atmosphere as a result humans and all
other living creatures on earth will
have to deal with deadly space radiation
that the ozone used to protect us from
this will probably prove fatal for life
on our planet
oh my an asteroid collision this
potential threat to Earth may come about
450 million years from now and well a
collision with an asteroid however big
probably won't extinguish all life-forms
on the planet it could come very close
after all that's one theory on what took
out the dinosaurs some scientists are
sure that our planet already experienced
such an encounter soon after his birth
as a result of this massive collision
our Moon was formed out of green cheese
no not really
[Music]
freezing of the Earth's core in three or
four billion years the Earth's molten
liquid core may solidify in this case
the planet will lose its magnetic field
and consequently its atmosphere this
will certainly lead to the demise of all
forms of life on our planet scientists
believe this is probably what happened
to Mars
its magnetosphere collapsed about
three-and-a-half billion years ago
turning the planet into a dry freezing
cold and desolate place with no air BnB
s
[Music]
gamma ray bursts these bursts are the
result of fierce space explosions that
happen when two stars collide or a giant
star blows up they can last anywhere
from a fraction of a second to a couple
of minutes if the earth is within the
vicinity of a gamma-ray burst it could
obliterate our ozone layer which as
we've already mentioned will lead to the
end of everything on the planet
[Music]
an intruding star a traveling star may
disturb the Peace of our carefree
existence in the next million years or
so the planets of our solar system have
been orbiting the Sun for billions of
years
but what if another star intrudes and
messes up this status quo
it might seem unrealistic but only
seventy thousand years ago a red dwarf
by the name of Schultz's star roamed the
outskirts of our solar system it wasn't
the first and it won't be the last case
when other stars come uninvited into our
solar system party in the worst case
scenario a rogue star will go supernova
while passing somewhere near the edges
of the solar system and it's ionizing
radiation would cause unimaginable harm
to us so Hey back off huh another event
that will lead to dramatic consequences
will be a star traveling right through
the solar system where the planets are
located but the chances of this scenario
are too small to worry about well that's
a relief
[Music]
the expanding side and finally we may
lose our planet to the expanding side
now this won't happen in any foreseeable
future more like three or four billion
years from now as the star gets bigger
and bigger the temperatures on our
planet continue to rise leading to the
ultimate evaporation of the oceans
this will cause a greenhouse effect that
will make the temperatures go even
higher this has the potential to wipe
even the most resistant microorganisms
off the surface of the planet so even if
all this sounds really scary and
disturbing right now hey don't worry we
have the entire universe with countless
stars and planets that could become the
new home for Humanity and other earthly
species and we can screw those up too
chances are that in the next few
centuries people will develop
technologies that will allow us to move
on in search of new worlds suitable for
Earth's inhabitants as for right now we
have all the time in the world to admire
and enjoy life on our beautiful planet
with the bright warm sun shining over
our heads
so what possible outcome for our planet
do you think will happen tell us in the
comments below
share this video with your friends that
love a good debate about the future of
our world like this video if you had an
exciting time watching it and remember
to click that big red subscribe button
this way
you'll join us on the bright side where
you'll find lots of cool information
about any topic of your choice